So story time, when I first started
getting started with coding,
I was one of those people who
thought that JavaScript, well,
in order to know JavaScript,
you need to learn Java.
And this was back in the day where I
was learning from an O'Reilly book,
I picked up an HTML book that
my dad kinda left around.
And then so
when I saw the JavaScript outside,
I picked up the Java book instead and
then I got really confused.
And then I gave up, and
I was discouraged for many, many years.
But then when I started getting back into
it, then I sort of learned, okay, so
it's different.
And I started working with jQuery,
and then at around this time,
framework was starting
to become really big.
So of course, Angular at this point had
really started to get really popular at
that point, and
then React came on the scene.
And so at this point, I'm thinking, okay,
how am I going to get
my skills up to date?
And so I had kind of worked
with all of these, and
React was the one I'd really been
pushing for at one of my old jobs when
I really first started getting hands
on experience with frameworks.
Because after all, this was at least,
as far as the statistics show,
the most popular one.
And it gave me a lot of opportunities
to practice JavaScript, so why not?
But what's interesting is that at this
company even though I was pushing for
React, I had my team going.
Well, there's this new kid
on the block called Vue, and
this around time Vue 2 come out that
we should really check this out.
It's supposed to be basically
just as performant as React, and
it has a more approachable
way of building apps.
And for me, I was like,
I wanna learn the most popular thing,
right, the most cutting edge.
So I was incredibly resistant to it.
And so part of the reason I tell this
story is because I want you to know
that this is where I came from as
far as experience working with
all these different frameworks.
And then from this
context of switching from
React to Angular into the Vue ecosystem.
And yeah, so we'll go from here.
Okay, so just to make sure we clarify
the simple definition of what Vue is.
I think the simplest way to think about
is it's a JavaScript framework for
building web user interfaces,
that's basically what it is.
It can certainly be used
to power other things.
Now, that we have frameworks that
can help you build mobile apps,
you can certainly use the underlying.
But primarily,
it's used to build web interfaces.
Now, of course,
the big question here is why Vue.js?
Why would people consider using Vue?
The first thing is that it's
designed to be approachable.
And what does that mean when
we talk about approachable?
And so this is taken from the docs in that
Vue builds on top of standard HTML, CSS,
and JavaScript with intuitive API and
world-class documentation.
For those coming from the React world,
one of the things you'll know is that one
thing React does is it goes all in on
your ability to know JavaScript, right?
You have to be able to write
basically everything in it, and
things have sort of gotten
improved since then.
But especially in the beginning,
you were sort of kept to the conventions
of JavaScript when you were writing JSX.
So you're writing HTML in your JavaScript,
so you have to do things like class name
instead of just class,
because those are reserved words.
And you find yourself basically
contorting the entire website
into what made sense in JavaScript.
And Vue's approach was that why not take
what people already know, HTML, CSS,
JavaScript, and let's just basically
build on top of that instead.
And so as a result,
you get a different learning curve.
Cuz I know that when I started with React,
I felt
like the amount of JavaScript I needed
to really get productive was super high.
In terms of knowing a lot of
either functional programming, or
a lot of the methods in order
to loop between elements.
There was a lot going on as far
as what's happening in React, so
there's a decent onboarding curve.
But with Vue, I found that
within the first couple hours,
I was able to get not only onboarded.
But I've taught people who have been out
of practice for coding for a long time,
and they got up and running real quick.
And so
I'll show you exactly how that goes, and
we'll get to experience that yourselves.
So this is one of the things to
consider when it comes to Vue.
Performant is always a big thing,
especially with frameworks these days.
The big disclaimer I always wanna add
it first is that vanilla JavaScript and
browser API's have come a long way.
And so if you haven't had
a chance to check out some of
the markers that post on TodoMVC and
vanilla JavaScript.
And so you might not need a framework,
and I say that as a core team member.
But that said, Vue is designed from
the ground up to be a reactive,
compiler-optimized rendering system that
rarely requires manual optimization.
So when it comes to performants,
especially the larger your apps get,
a lot of times people are very
curious about how we can basically
prevent ourselves from creating
bottlenecks in our performants.
Because we don't understand maybe some of
the core primitives about JavaScript, and
that's what frameworks allow for
us, right?
They abstract some of that
performants away, so they say,
we'll take care of that.
You just write your business logic,
and we'll go from there.
And so you might have noticed too I'm
not putting any sort of charts or
numbers as far as sizes go at this moment.
Because one of the things that Vue, and I
think a lot of frameworks are doing right
now is that they're always trying to find
ways to continue to be smaller, right, and
they're learning from each other as we go.
So when you're deciding whether or
not Vue is the performance framework for
you, especially if you're gonna like
migrate an enterprise level app,
you're probably gonna wanna do
some benchmarks of your own.
Because there're gonna be different
contexts to why you might be making
decision, because different bottlenecks
exists within different contexts.
Okay, the other thing is
that Vue is versatile.
So what does that mean?
So via the docs, it's a rich, incremental,
adoptable ecosystem that scales between
a library and a full-featured framework.
And so for anyone who's gotten into
the discussion, usually developers
get very heated about the library
versus framework argument, right?
And that was a big thing for
React too, is React a library?
When is it a framework?
Basically, for Vue, what I will tell you
is that it can be used basically as a CDN,
basically as a drop in
library to your page,
which we'll play around
with just in a little bit.
Or it can be blown up to a fully framework
project that you're used to expect or
you've come to get familiar with when
it comes to front-end applications.
And so that's basically the difference
I would say between the two,
that one usually requires build tools,
the other one does not.
And so Vue is really good at doing that.
The other thing that drew me to Vue,
especially the more I learned about it,
is that it is community first.
Something that I think is often overlooked
when it comes to Vue is that currently,
it is basically within the big three of
the frameworks, right, we have React, Vue,
Angular.
And if we think about it,
React has Facebook backing it,
we have Google backing Angular.
Yet Vue is a community-based
open source project that's
managed to climb to
the popularity that it has now.
I think that speaks a lot
to the conventions and
API's that were designed when Vue was
built as far as its approachability.
I know people like to jump on
the bandwagon as far as what big tech
companies are doing.
But then the fact that Vue is able
to do this while basically learning
from different frameworks.
And basically helping to do
what's best for the community,
I think that's always been a really
attractive selling point of Vue.
It's cuz you know that it's
driven by doing what's best for
the community rather than what's best for
the corporation.
And that we've seen trends of that
over the community at times, but
that's one of the things
I really liked about it.
The other thing about Vue is that most
of the core team is actually made
up of volunteers across the world.
So I think we have somewhat like 26
different countries of volunteers
basically helping to maintain and
build the project.
And that provides for a kind of
international perspective on what's
happening in the world as far
as different kinds of apps.
And so especially when people talk about
numbers and popularity, a lot of things
like npm tend to take statistics from sort
of the Western Hemisphere of the world.
But a lot of things in Asia might
not be included in that, and
we do know that Vue is
heavily used in Asia.
And so it's really cool to see the
different kinds of perspectives that come
with that.
And so with that,
we get a really sort of international
mindset when it comes to building Vue.
Okay, of course, that said,
people when they think about Vue,
because it's not backed by Google,
it's not backed by Facebook,
they wanna know that it's
enterprise-proven and granted.
Now that it's Vue 3,
we've seen a lot of different apps.
I wanna just show a couple for
those who might not be familiar with this.
But Apple actually use Vue to build
their introduction to SwiftUI.
And so the way you know this by the way
is if you install Vue devtools,
which I'll show you how to do later.
You'll notice in the upper right here,
it'll actually detect when Vue is being
used and it'll basically flash green.
By flash green, I mean it'll have
that enabled state, otherwise,
it would be grayed out.
And so here's another page,
here's the Google Careers page
where they're also using Vue.
And then some of you might have
started using Zoom in the pandemic,
and so, yep, Zoom also uses Vue.
As far as e-commerce goes, we have REI.
So for all the outdoor people out there,
when you're using the e-commerce,
Vue is powering that.
L'Oreal Paris as well,
we've had the team actually speak
at some of the conferences before.
It's really fascinating to learn about
the different things they're doing when it
comes to makeup.
So some of the things they were
doing were interactive visually,
imagery where you could
change the lipstick.
And then it would change the image
color of the model and stuff like that.
They're doing some really cool stuff as
far as reactivity in that kind of thing.
And then here's the fun one, Nintendo.
Nintendo is powered by Vue as well as.
So if you ever logged in play around
with that, they are also using Vue.
And if you didn't know, MediaWiki, which
is the big organization behind Wikipedia,
as well as some other properties.
They actually did a really long
investigation into deciding which
framework they would adopt going
forward for their basically migration.
And basically, they landed on Vue,
which we were really happy to hear.
And so if you're ever looking to
see kind of why they did that,
there's a whole paper on that.
So I just wanted to at least
alert you all if you're curious
about a big organization migrating
the Vue and their reasoning behind it,
that is there for y'all to read.